Report on COVID ANALYSIS project
Project name: COVID analysis
Description: The spread of the new coronavirus COVID-19, has led to unparalleled global measures such as lockdown and suspension of all retail, recreation and religious activities during the first months of 2020. Nevertheless, no scientific evidence has been reported so far with regards to the impact on road safety and driving behaviour. This paper investigates the effect of COVID-19 on driving behaviour and safety indicators captured through a specially developed smartphone application and transmitted to a back-end platform. These indicators are reflected with the spread of COVID-19 and the respective governmental countermeasures in two countries, namely Greece and Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA), which had the most completed routes for users of the smartphone applications. It was shown that reduced traffic volumes due to lockdown, led to a slight increase in speeds by 6–11%, but more importantly to more frequent harsh acceleration and harsh braking events (up to 12% increase) as well mobile phone use (up to 42% increase) during March and April 2020, which were the months where COVID-19 spread was at its peak. On the bright side, accidents in Greece were reduced by 41% during the first month of COVID-19-induced measures and driving in the early morning hours (00:00–05:00) which are considered dangerous dropped by up to 81%. Policymakers should concentrate on establishing new speed limits and ensure larger spaces for cycling and pedestrians in order to enlarge distances between users in order to safeguard both an enhanced level of road safety and the prevention of COVID-19 spread.
Applications:
Another change which the COVID-19 pandemic crisis has initiated is social distancing. This makes working or learning from home necessary. As such, this now encompasses virtual work, virtual meetings, and distance learning. The rapid spread of COVID-19 accompanied high volumes of data in different formats such as structured, semi-structured, or unstructured data, requiring these applications and large processing abilities . Performing this level of data without sufficient technology infrastructure and applications is difficult, so the use of various kinds of applications pressure organizations to realize the new technology . An analysis from an investment firm Partners stated that there are opportunities for remote collaboration tools for people to work collectively even when they are not physically together. Among the popular downloads of work apps are WeChat Work, and Lark. America’s Zoom jumped exponentially from No. 180 at the end of January to No. 28 at the end of February 2020 in terms of downloads and installs. The downside to this rapid growth has been hacked and pirated due to the security faults in the application.

